---
title:  Previous Meetings
filter:
  - erb
  - textile
---

h1. <%= @page.title %>

Back to "Home":/

h2. April 7, 2009

h3. Ruby Hacking. Again!

After the great response and turnout we will have another hands-on hack night at the Dallas.rb.  Come prepared to hack with everyone or just look over someone's shoulder.  You will have a chance to share on any code snippets, projects, or anything else you might have.  Don't have anything to share and just want to hack?  Come on and hang out with everyone else.  Got questions or need help with a project you are working on?  Come out and get some more eyes on it to help you out.

Be sure to RSVP so we will know how many to plan for.  The past few meetings, parking has been limited out front, but there is also a garage in the back easily accessible by driving around the south side of the building.  Park on the south side of garage (near vacant field) and come into the south building.

h2. March 3, 2009

h3. Ruby Hacking

We will have a hands-on hack night at the Dallas.rb.  Come prepared to hack with everyone or just look over someone's shoulder.  We will be looking at tinyrb ("http://code.macournoyer.com/tinyrb/":http://code.macournoyer.com/tinyrb/), getting Rails apps started fast with Basejumper ("http://github.com/gdagley/basejumper":http://github.com/gdagley/basejumper), or anything else you might have.  Got another project that people would be interested in?  Come show it off.  Got questions or need help with a project you are working on?  Come out and get some more eyes on it to help you out.

Be sure to RSVP so we will know how many to plan for.  The past few meetings, parking has been limited out front, but there is also a garage in the back easily accessible by driving around the south side of the building.  Park on the south side of garage (near vacant field) and come into the south building.

h2. February 3, 2009

h3. Share Your Ruby Knowledge

Being part of community is more than just sitting on the sidelines and watching everyone else have all the fun.  Come out this month and share one thing (or more) that you have been working on, playing with, or generally think is cool in Ruby.  It might be a code snippet or new gem you found. It can be Rails/Merb related (plugins/ apps/ secret cool shortcuts) if that is where you have been spending your days lately.  

General guidelines:
- Short topics (5 to 15 min, longer if needed)
- Formal slides are acceptable, but not required

Be sure to reply back to the group if you are planning on attending, even if you won't be presenting, so we can know how many people to expect.  

Feel free to post the topic(s) that you might talk about.  If you have something you would like to learn about, post it to the group, in case someone is looking for ideas.

h2. January 6, 2009

h3. Smalltalk

With all the comparisons made between Ruby and Smalltalk and the excitement over the MagLev Ruby VM you might be wanting to know more about Smalltalk. Come and learn more about Smalltalk from "James Robertson":http://www.cincomsmalltalk.com/blog/blogView.

h2. November 11, 2008

h3. Building full-text search into your Rails application

We will be looking at different searching solutions using Ruby.   So far we have people presenting on Ferret, Sphinx and Xapien. If you've had experience with Solr or another full-text index, feel free to come and share them!

We will have time at the beginning of the meeting for you to share little things that you have found, worked on, or generally thought was cool in Ruby recently.

h2. October 7, 2008

h3. Configuration management of production Rails environments with Puppet

At "FiveRuns":http://www.fiveruns.com, we utilize Reductive Labs's Puppet to manage the deployment
and configuration of our production architecture.  In this talk I will
cover:

* Basic puppet architecture (puppetmaster, puppet clients)
* Basic overview of the puppet descriptor language
* Deployment of a rails platform (ruby, gems, rails, mysql, webserver)
* Configuration management of a production infrastructure.

h3. Matt Swain

Matt has been a long-time *nix geek and loves trying to automate himself out of a job.  He enjoys working very closely with developers on custom applications, and he has been doing exactly that since 2001.  A recent veteran of Symantec's anti-phisihing 24x7 ops team, Matt currently manages Fiverun's internal and external computing infrastructures.

h2. September 2, 2008

h3. Tactical Design

I’ve noticed that when people try to improve the state of the art of software design, they try to think bigger: big patterns, big principles, discussions about classes and modules and components, layers and tiers. Last year I heard a talk called “Strategic Design”.

But I’ve personally had a lot better luck thinking small.

In this talk, we’ll explore just a few small-scale, tactical design principles, and how they can help you and your team build better systems.

h3. Glenn Vanderburg

Glenn Vanderburg works at "Relevance, Inc.":http://www.thinkrelevance.com, where he helps customers build great systems with Ruby. He has been working with Ruby since 2000, and thinking about good design for a lot longer than that. He lives in the Dallas area.

h2. August 5, 2008

h3. Hacks

The plan for tomorrow's meeting is to hack stuff, together. Here are some ideas:

* Hack on the Dallas.rb website. We're looking to rebuild it with Webby, a neat little static-site CMS written in Ruby. If you've got front-end skills, we could use a lot of help here.
* Hack on a Ruby Quiz. If you've got a favorite, let the list know and we can work on that one.
* Whatever project you may already have going.

If you just want to pair with someone else, that works too. I'll probably float around and try and work a little on the website and the quiz.

h2. July 1, 2008

h3. Oh the Fail I've Known

Some things sound like a great idea at the time. Hair bands. Crazy guys with a Casio keyboard. Even the Rails core thought components were a good idea for awhile there. Luckily, we later realize these things are not, in fact, all we thought they were cracked up to be.

Unfortunately, we usually learn these things after you’ve committed to them. Interacting with customers and teammates is hit or miss. Developers have to learn continuously but are left on their own to do so. The side-effects of using some API or feature aren’t often discussed in manuals. So it ends up we usually learn about these things by trying and failing.

Some kinds of experience are hard won. Join Adam Keys as he admits to the most embarrassing albums he owns. Adding to his humiliation, he’ll share the lessons he’s learned the hard way about building applications with Rails. His pain is your gain!

h3. Adam Keys

Adam is a software developer from Dallas, TX. He writes on his weblog, The Real Adam on topics ranging from Ruby to pizza. When not writing bios in the third person, Adam volunteers for dog rescue and as a feral cat caretaker. In general, Adam also likes to make those around him laugh. You’ve been warned.

h2. June 3, 2008

h3. Shoes

Jim Hughes will be sharing information using the Shoes framework.

h2. April 1, 2008

h3. Lightening Talks

We will be opening the floor to anyone who wants to share.  Have you had something you were working on, but didn't need a full meeting to talk about it?  Got a new project you want to show off?   Find some new Ruby code or library that you think others might find interesting?  This is your chance to share it.

Topics can range from 5 to 20 minutes.  Let me know if you have a topic that might go longer.

h2. Before This

There were others, but unfortunately we forgot the keep track of them.

Back to "Home":/